# Vision or Blind Ambition?
 
One day, when Carol and I were in a shitty season together, and when self-doubt was at its peak for both of us, she raised her finger and voice in self-loathing to damn this one word aloud: Ambition\! That single word was like an arrow with a thousand more behind it. Every one had carved on its side still another word that I’d recognize. But unlike every time before it, when I took issue with Carol and immediately began convincing her that she was wrong and that I was right, I had to temper my response.  It was because I, myself, had been questioning the same word.  What she really meant was “blind ambition” and it’s a real fallacy. Were we suffering the consequences of it?
 
Up to that season of doubt, I had adopted the belief that: “The right vision, pursued fearlessly and tirelessly, will be supernaturally met with the resources required to manifest it.”
 
Had I pursued vision? Ambition? Does the word even matter if I could allow myself to be blinded by it?
 
At 49, and beyond that season, I know that I can see through, or perhaps around, “ambition”. I recognize its place in a bigger picture. It is important to have ambition, and it is equally important to avoid having your nose stuck to it. There are other reasons we encounter blind spots in our lives, too. These shouldn’t be confused with blind ambition. The best example that I can think of is when I simply lacked experience in one area or another until I received it. This is when I have to accept that I couldn’t “do” better until I “knew” better. The difference between what one person will label “blind ambition” and another person will appreciate as “vision”, is not unlike discerning “foolishness” from "faith". You can’t immediately respond to a poor outcome as having originated from one or the other. You have to wrestle with the circumstances that led up to it and pick them apart while enduring the pain. In fact, failing to do so will rightly receive someone else’s ire who shares the shitty outcome with you. A failure to take ownership is the only inexcusable blind spot there can be because it will happen again and again. Wrath earns its place in the word pairing, which is why “blind ambition” is always recognized as something bad, evil, or foolhardy. There is value in being wrong when it is accepted and applied.
 
Here is what I know with confidence… These questions must be asked and answered as we move forward, through time, in our human limitation: Where do I want to go? Do I have a plan? Am I willing to keep putting my next, best foot forward to get there, even when that foot hurts like hell? And will I adjust my plan along the way when I realize that the pain suffered is the consequence of a blind spot, whether or not it could have been avoided?
 
To what extent does AI threaten this journey? Do we deny ourselves the value of being wrong in the pursuit of a perfect outcome?